Houston API docs refresh (#3434)
astronomer/docs: software/houston-api-examples.md

Author: When reviewing this file, please check:

- Are the queries formatted correctly? 
- Are the queries "Best practice"? As in, are they a realistic example of usage?

Reviewer: That query did not work in the playground. This should, though:
```graphql
query workspaceDeployment {
  workspaceDeployment(
    releaseName: "mathematical-probe-2087"
    workspaceUuid: "ck35y9uf44y8l0a19cmwd1x8x"
  )
  {
    id
    status
    createdAt
    updatedAt
    roleBindings {
      id, 
      role, 
      user {
        username,
        emails {
          primary
        }
      }
    } 
  }
}```

It did not like the empty user object `user{}`. You have to specify at least something to come back, I think.

Author: @fhaynes Is there an example "Create a Workspace" query we can add here? If you provide the raw query, I can write the docs around it.

    workspaceUuid: "ck35y9uf44y8l0a19cmwd1x8x"
  )
  {
    id
    status
    createdAt
    updatedAt
    roleBindings {id, role, user{}} 
  }
}
```

### Query user details

A common query is `users`, which lets you retrieve information about multiple users at once. To use this query, you must provide:

- At least one of the following `userSearch` values:

    - `userId` (String): The user's ID
    - `userUuid`(String): The user's unique ID
    - `username` (String): The user's username
    - `email` (String): The user's email
    - `fullName` (String): The user's full name
    - `createdAt`(DateTime): When the user was created
    - `updatedAt`(DateTime): When the user was updated
  
- **Workspace ID**: To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL (for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`).

The query returns the requested details for all users who exactly match the values provided for the `userSearch`. For example, the following query would retrieve the requested values for any user accounts with the email `name@mycompany.com`

```graphql

> query User {

Reviewer: This query works fine

  users(user: { email: "<name@mycompany.com>"} )
  {
    id
    roleBindings {role}
    status
    createdAt
  }
}
```

## Example mutations

Mutations make a change to your platform's underlying database. For some common examples, read below.

### Create a Deployment

To create a Deployment, you'll need Workspace Admin permissions and a -**Workspace ID**. To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL (for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`).

This example mutation creates a Deployment with the Celery executor and the latest Runtime version. It then returns the Deployment's ID and configuration to confirm that it was successfully created. 

```graphql

> mutation CreateDeployment {

Reviewer: This mutation will not work, I don't think, and it failed in the playground. This works, however:
```graphql
mutation CreateNewDeployment{
  createDeployment(
    workspaceUuid: "<workspace-id>",
    type: "airflow",
    label: "<deployment-name>",
    executor:CeleryExecutor,
    runtimeVersion: "{{RUNTIME_VER}}"
  ) {
  id
  }
}
```

  createDeployment(
    workspaceUuid: "<workspace-id>",
    type: "airflow",
    label: "<deployment-name>",
    executor:CeleryExecutor,

>     runtimeVersion: "{{RUNTIME_VER}}"

Reviewer: Is this a templated string that didn't get resolved?

Author: This will render as the latest available runtime version in the docs. We use this formatting so that we can update the Runtime version from one place and apply it to all docs.

    )
    {
      id
      executor
      releaseName
      workspace{label}
      roleBindings{id}
    }
}
```

### Create or update a Deployment with configurations

:::info 

The `upsertDeployment` mutation is behind a feature flag. To enable this feature, set the following configuration in your `config.yaml` file:

```yaml
astronomer:
  houston:
    config:
      deployments:
        upsertDeploymentEnabled: true
```

Then push the configuration change to your cluster. See [Apply a config change](https://docs.astronomer.io/software/apply-platform-config).

:::

The `upsertDeployment` mutation can be used to both create and update Deployments with all possible Deployment configurations. If you query `upsertDeployment` without a `deploymentUuid`, the Houston API creates a new Deployment according to your specifications. If you specify an existing `deploymentUuid`, the Houston API updates the Deployment with that ID. All queries to create a Deployment require specifying a `workspaceUuid`.

The following query creates a new Deployment in a custom namespace `test-new-dep` and configures a Deployment environment variable `AIRFLOW__CORE__COLORED_LOG_FORMAT`.

```graphql

> mutation upsertDeployment(

Reviewer: This one is OK, though note that the config field of Deployment is scheduled to be deprecated, iirc.

    "branchName": "",
    "syncInterval": 1,
    "syncTimeout": 120,
    "ephemeralStorage": 2,
    "dagDirectoryLocation": "",
    "rev": "",
    "sshKey": "",
    "knownHosts": ""
  }
}
```

### Delete a Deployment

To delete a Deployment, you'll need:

- Either System Admin or Workspace Admin permissions
- A Deployment ID. To retrieve this value, run `astro deployment list` or request the `id` value in the `workspaceDeployment` query.

The following example mutation deletes a Deployment, then returns the ID of the Deployment to confirm that it was successfully deleted. 

```graphql
mutation DeleteDeployment {
  deleteDeployment (
    deploymentUuid: "<deployment-id>"
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

### Create a Deployment user

To add an existing Astronomer Software user to a Deployment, you'll need. 

- Workspace Admin privileges
- A Deployment ID. To retrieve this value, run `astro deployment list` or request the `id` value in the `workspaceDeployment` query.
- The ID of the user to add. To retrieve this, request the `id` value in a `users` query or run `astro workspace user list`.
- The role to add the user as. Can be `DEPLOYMENT_ADMIN`, `DEPLOYMENT_EDITOR`, or `DEPLOYMENT_VIEWER`.

> The following query adds a user to a Deployment as a Deployment viewer,. then returns the user and Deployment information back to the requester. 

Reviewer: Grammar error here, with the `,.` thing.

```graphql

> mutation AddDeploymentUser(

Reviewer: If you want to use variables in your example, you must either specify the type, like this:
```graphql
mutation AddDeploymentUser(
  $userId: Id!, 
  $email: String!, 
  $deploymentId: Id!,
  $role: Role!
)
{
		deploymentAddUserRole(
			userId: $userId
			email: $email
			deploymentId: $deploymentId
			role: $role
		) {
			id
			user {
				username
			}
			role
			deployment {
				id
				releaseName
			}
		}
	}
```

Or you can provide default arguments, like this:
```graphql
mutation AddDeploymentUser(
  $userId:Id! = "f9182b1d-2f7c-4d33-920b-2124b1660d83", 
  $email: String! = "usertoadd@mycompany.com", 
  $deploymentId: Id! = "<some_id>",
  $role: Role! = DEPLOYMENT_VIEWER
)
{
		deploymentAddUserRole(
			userId: $userId
			email: $email
			deploymentId: $deploymentId
			role: $role
		) {
			id
			user {
				username
			}
			role
			deployment {
				id
				releaseName
			}
		}
	}
```

		$userId: "f9182b1d-2f7c-4d33-920b-2124b1660d83"
		$email: "usertoadd@mycompany.com"
		$deploymentId: "<deploymentId>"
		$role: DEPLOYMENT_VIEWER
	) {
		deploymentAddUserRole(
			userId: $userId
			email: $email
			deploymentId: $deploymentId
			role: $role
		) {
			id
			user {
				username
			}
			role
			deployment {
				id
				releaseName
			}
		}
	}
```

### Delete a user

To delete a user from Astronomer Software, you'll need:

- System Admin permissions
- The ID of the user to delete. To retrieve this, request the `id` value in a `users` query or run `astro workspace user list`.

The following query removes a user, then returns information about the deleted user. 

```graphql

> mutation removeUser {

Reviewer: User does not have a field named `uuid`. Did you mean `id`?

The following request verifies the email and returns `true` or `false` based on whether the mutation was successful. 

```graphql
mutation verifyEmail {
	verifyEmail (
    email: "<user-email>"
  )
}
```

### Bypass user email verification

If you don't need certain users to verify their email before they join a Workspace, you can configure a bypass when you add them to a Workspace. This can be useful for minimizing friction when programmatically inviting many users to your platform.

To run this mutation, you'll need:

- Workspace Admin permissions
- A -**Workspace ID**. To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL (for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`).
- The user's email address.
- The user's desired role in the Workspace (`WORKSPACE_ADMIN`, `WORKSPACE_EDITOR`, `WORKSPACE_USER`).

The following example mutation can be run to add a user to a Workspace as a `WORKSPACE_USER`.

```graphql
mutation workspaceAddUser(
    $workspaceUuid: Uuid = "<your-workspace-uuid>"
    $email: String! = "<user-email-address>"

>     $role: Role! = WORKSPACE_USER

Reviewer: `WORKSPACE_USER` is not one of the values of the Role enum. It has `WORKSPACE_VIEWER`, `WORKSPACE_EDITOR`, and `WORKSPACE_ADMIN`

Reviewer: It also has `USER`

    $bypassInvite: Boolean! = true
  ) {
    workspaceAddUser(
      workspaceUuid: $workspaceUuid
      email: $email
      role: $role

>       deploymentRoles: $deploymentRoles

Reviewer: This variable ($deploymentRoles) is not specified above.

      bypassInvite: $bypassInvite
    ) {
      id
    }
  }
```

### Add a System Admin

To add a user as a System Admin through the Houston API, you'll need the following values: 

- To retrieve this, request the `id` value in a `users` query or run `astro workspace user list`.
- System Admin permissions

You can then run the following query to add the user as a System Admin.

```graphql

> mutation createSystemRoleBinding (

Reviewer: Need to specify the types of the arguments:
```graphql
mutation createSystemRoleBinding (
    $userId: ID! = "<user-id>"
    $role: Role! = SYSTEM_ADMIN
) {
  createSystemRoleBinding(
    userId: $userId
    role: $role
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

    $userId: "<user-id>"
    $role: SYSTEM_ADMIN
) {
  createSystemRoleBinding(
    userId: $userId
    role: $role
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

### Update environment variables

To programmatically update environment variables, you'll need:

- A Deployment ID. To retrieve this value, run `astro deployment list` or request the `id` value in the `workspaceDeployment` query.
- A Deployment release name: To retrieve this value, run `astro deployment list` in your Workspace. Alternatively, you can copy the **Release name** from your Deployment's **Settings** tab in the Software UI.
  

Then, in your GraphQL Playground, run the following:

```graphql

> mutation UpdateDeploymentVariables {

Reviewer: The variable types will need to be specified here as well

---
sidebar_label: 'Example API requests'
title: 'Example Houston API requests'
id: houston-api-examples
description: Examples of some of the most common queries you might make to the Astronomer Software Houston API
---

Use the following example Houston API requests as the basis for the applications you develop for Astronomer Software. 

## Example queries

You can retrieve common information for specific Astronomer objects by using the following sample queries.

### Query Deployment details

You can use the `workspaceDeployment` query to retrieve details about a Deployment in a given Workspace. It requires the following inputs:

- **Workspace ID**: To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL (for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`).
- **Deployment release name**: To retrieve this value, run `astro deployment list` in your Workspace. Alternatively, you can copy the **Release name** from your Deployment's **Settings** tab in the Software UI.

> and can return any of the fields under `Type Details`, such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

 The `workspaceDeployment` query can return also any of the fields under `Type Details`, such as:
```

- `config`
- `uuid`
- `status`
- `createdAt`
- `updatedAt`
- `roleBindings`

> For instance, you can run the following query to retrieve the Deployment's:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can run the following query to retrieve the Deployment's:
```

- ID
- Health status
- Creation time
- Update time
- Users

```graphql
query workspaceDeployment {
  workspaceDeployment(
    releaseName: "mathematical-probe-2087"
    workspaceUuid: "ck35y9uf44y8l0a19cmwd1x8x"
  )
  {
    id
    status
    createdAt
    updatedAt
    roleBindings {
      id, 
      role, 
      user {
        username,
        emails {
          primary
        }
      }
    } 
  }
}
```

### Query user details

A common query is `users`, which lets you retrieve information about multiple users at once. To use this query, you must provide:

- At least one of the following `userSearch` values:

    - `userId` (String): The user's ID
    - `userUuid`(String): The user's unique ID
    - `username` (String): The user's username
    - `email` (String): The user's email
    - `fullName` (String): The user's full name
    - `createdAt`(DateTime): When the user was created
    - `updatedAt`(DateTime): When the user was updated
  

> - **Workspace ID**: To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL (for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Workspace ID**: To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL, for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`.
```

> The query returns the requested details for all users who exactly match the values provided for the `userSearch`. For example, the following query would retrieve the requested values for any user accounts with the email `name@mycompany.com`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The query returns the requested details for all users who exactly match the values provided for the `userSearch`. For example, the following query would retrieve the requested values for any user accounts with the email `name@mycompany.com`:
```

```graphql
query User {
  users(user: { email: "<name@mycompany.com>"} )
  {
    id
    roleBindings {role}
    status
    createdAt
  }
}
```

## Example mutations

Mutations make a change to your platform's underlying database. The following sections describe some common examples.

### Create a Deployment

> To create a Deployment, you need Workspace Admin permissions and a **Workspace ID**. To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL (for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a Deployment, you need Workspace Admin permissions and a **Workspace ID**. To retrieve this value, run `astro workspace list`. Alternatively, open a Workspace in the Software UI and copy the value after `/w/` in your Workspace URL, for example `https://app.basedomain/w/<workspace-id>`.
```

  },
  "dagDeployment": {
    "type": "image",
    "nfsLocation": "",
    "repositoryUrl": "",
    "branchName": "",
    "syncInterval": 1,
    "syncTimeout": 120,
    "ephemeralStorage": 2,
    "dagDirectoryLocation": "",
    "rev": "",
    "sshKey": "",
    "knownHosts": ""
  }
}
```

### Delete a Deployment

To delete a Deployment, you'll need:

- Either System Admin or Workspace Admin permissions
- A Deployment ID. To retrieve this value, run `astro deployment list` or request the `id` value in the `workspaceDeployment` query.

The following example mutation deletes a Deployment, then returns the ID of the Deployment to confirm that it was successfully deleted. 

```graphql
mutation DeleteDeployment {
  deleteDeployment (
    deploymentUuid: "<deployment-id>"
  ) {
    id
  }
}
```

### Create a Deployment user

To add an existing Astronomer Software user to a Deployment, you'll need. 

- Workspace Admin privileges
- A Deployment ID. To retrieve this value, run `astro deployment list` or request the `id` value in the `workspaceDeployment` query.
- The ID of the user to add. To retrieve this, request the `id` value in a `users` query or run `astro workspace user list`.

> - The role to add the user as. Can be `DEPLOYMENT_ADMIN`, `DEPLOYMENT_EDITOR`, or `DEPLOYMENT_VIEWER`.

Author: I think so? Show me where we bold them though, maybe it makes sense to do that here

> - The role to add the user as. Can be `DEPLOYMENT_ADMIN`, `DEPLOYMENT_EDITOR`, or `DEPLOYMENT_VIEWER`.

Reviewer 2: https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/configure-worker-queues#worker-queue-settings

```graphql
mutation AddDeploymentUser(
  $userId: Id! = "f9182b1d-2f7c-4d33-920b-2124b1660d83", 
  $email: String! = "usertoadd@mycompany.com", 
  $deploymentId: Id! = "<some_id>",
  $role: Role! = DEPLOYMENT_VIEWER
)
{
		deploymentAddUserRole(
			userId: $userId
			email: $email
			deploymentId: $deploymentId
			role: $role
		) {
			id
			user {
				username
			}
			role
			deployment {
				id
				releaseName
			}
		}
	}
```

### Delete a user

To delete a user from Astronomer Software, you'll need:

- System Admin permissions
- The ID of the user to delete. To retrieve this, request the `id` value in a `users` query or run `astro workspace user list`.

The following query removes a user, then returns information about the deleted user. 

```graphql
mutation removeUser {
	removeUser (
    id: "<user-id>"
  ) {
    uuid
    emails {address}
    status
  }
}
```

### Verify user email

If a user on the platform has trouble verifying their email address, you can use the Houston API to manually verify it for them.

To run this mutation, you'll need:

- System Admin Permissions

> - The user's email address. Additionally, ensure that the user has already begun creating an account on the platform. They must have signed up for an account, and Astronomer Software must already have generated an invite token for the user. 

Reviewer 2: **Additionally, ensure that the user has already begun creating an account on the platform.** - this is a little confusing a description I think. 
```suggestion
- The user's email address. This needs to be the email address that the user provided when they began creating an account on the platform. They must have signed up for an account, and Astronomer Software must already have generated an invite token for the user. 
```
